"Flee sloth; for the indolence of the soul is the decay of the body."
"I would rather be right than be king."
"Don’t promise twice what you can do at once."
"Regard not dreams, since they are but the images of our hopes and fears."
"Everyone has the gift of speech. But few have the gift of wisdom."
"Patience is the greatest of all virtues."
"Consider in silence whatever any one says: speech both conceals and reveals the inner soul of man."
"Consider it the greatest of all virtues to restrain the tongue."
"Bitter are the roots of study, but how sweet their fruit."
"In doing nothing men learn to do evil."
"I will begin to speak, when I have that to say which had not better be unsaid."
"A honest man is seldom a vagrant."
"All have the gift of speech, but few are possessed of wisdom."
"Wise men are more dependent on fools than fools on wise men."
"The best way to keep good acts in memory is to refresh them with new."
"For some people there is no comfort without pain. Thus; we define salvation through suffering. Hence, why we choose people who we know aren't right for ourselves."
"Flee sloth; for the indolence of the soul is the decay of the body."
“It is not that I am mad, it is only that my head is different from yours.”
“Alexander the Great found the philosopher looking attentively at a pile of human bones. Diogenes explained, "I am searching for the bones of your father but cannot distinguish them from those of a slave.”
“Of what use is a philosopher who doesn't hurt anybody's feelings?”
“In a rich man's house there is no place to spit but his face.”
“It is the privilege of the gods to want nothing, and of godlike men to want little.”
“I am a citizen of the world.”
“A philosopher named Aristippus, who had quite willingly sucked up to Dionysus and won himself a spot at his court, saw Diogenes cooking lentils for a meal. "If you would only learn to compliment Dionysus, you wouldn't have to live on lentils." Diogenes replied, "But if you would only learn to live on lentils, you wouldn't have to flatter Dionysus.”
“The foundation of every state is the education of its youth.”
“It takes a wise man to discover a wise man.”
“When some one reminded him that the people of Sinope had sentenced him to exile, he said, "And I sentenced them to stay at home.”
“Dogs and philosophers do the greatest good and get the fewest rewards.”
“Blushing is the color of virtue.”
“I have nothing to ask but that you would remove to the other side, that you may not, by intercepting the sunshine, take from me what you cannot give.”
“The art of being a slave is to rule one's master.”
“Poverty is a virtue which one can teach oneself.”
“No man is hurt but by himself”
“Once he saw the officials of a temple leading away some one who had stolen a bowl belonging to the treasurers, and said, "The great thieves are leading away the little thief.”
“To one who asked what was the proper time for lunch, he said, "If a rich man, when you will; if a poor man, when you can.”
“What I like to drink most is wine that belongs to others.”
“When people laughed at him because he walked backward beneath the portico, he said to them: "Aren't you ashamed, you who walk backward along the whole path of existence, and blame me for walking backward along the path of the promenade?”
“The only way to gall and fret effectively is for yourself to be a good and honest man.”
“I am Diogenes the Dog. I nuzzle the kind, bark at the greedy and bite scoundrels.”
“Behold! I've brought you a man.”
“If I gained one thing from philosophy is that at the very least, I am well prepared to confront any change in fortune.”
“The insult dishonors the one who infers it, not the one who receives it.”
“As a matter of self-preservation, a man needs good friends or ardent enemies, for the former instruct him and the latter take him to task.”
“You are a simpleton, Hegesias; you do not choose painted figs, but real ones; and yet you pass over the true training and would apply yourself to written rules”
“He has the most who is most content with the least.”
"Progress is not achieved by luck or accident, but by working on yourself daily."
"Any person capable of angering you becomes your master."
"Happiness and freedom begin with a clear understanding of one principle: Some things are within our control, and some things are not. It is only after you have faced up to this fundamental rule and learned to distinguish between what you can and can't control that inner tranquility and outer effectiveness become possible."
"It's not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters."
"It is impossible for a man to learn what he thinks he already knows."
"Suffering arises from trying to control what is uncontrollable, or from neglecting what is within our power."
"He who is not happy with little will never be happy with much."
"When something happens, the only thing in your power is your attitude toward it. It is not the things that disturb us, but our interpretation of their significance. Things and people are not what we wish them to be nor are they what they seem to be. They are what they are."
"Keep your attention focused entirely on what is truly your own concern, and be clear that what belongs to others is their business and none of yours."
"Be careful whom you associate with. It is human to imitate the habits of those with whom we interact. We inadvertently adopt their interests, their opinions, their values, and their habit of interpreting events."
"Wealth consists not in having great possessions, but in having few wants."
"No matter what happens, it is within my power to turn it to my advantage."
"Don't explain your philosophy. Embody it."
"Man is not worried by real problems so much as by his imagined anxieties about real problems"
"Every difficulty in life presents us with an opportunity to turn inward and to invoke our own submerged inner resources. The trials we endure can and should introduce us to our strengths."
“Be tolerant with others and strict with yourself.”
“You don’t have to turn this into something. It doesn’t have to upset you.” 
“To live a good life: We have the potential for it. If we learn to be indifferent to what makes no difference.” 
“It’s silly to try to escape other people’s faults. They are inescapable. Just try to escape your own.”
“Think of yourself as dead. You have lived your life. Now take what’s left and live it properly.”
“Because most of what we say and do is not essential. Ask yourself at every moment, “Is this necessary?”
“The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way.” 
“It’s unfortunate that this has happened. No. It’s fortunate that this has happened and I’ve remained unharmed.”
“You’re better off not giving the small things more time than they deserve.”
“If it is not right, do not do it, if it is not true, do not say it.”
“Waste no more time arguing what a good man should be. Be one.”
“It’s all in how you perceive it. You’re in control. You can dispense with misperception at will, like rounding the point.”
“It’s a disgrace in this life when the soul surrenders first while the body refuses to.”
“The best revenge is not to be like your enemy.”
“Just that you do the right thing. The rest doesn’t matter."
“Your mind will take the shape of what you frequently hold in thought, for the human spirit is colored by such impressions.”
“You shouldn’t give circumstances the power to rouse anger, for they don’t care at all.”
“Take a good hard look at people’s ruling principle, especially of the wise, what they run away from & what they seek out.”
“Accept the things to which fate binds you and love the people with whom fate brings you together but do so with all your heart.” 
"A room without books is like a body without a soul."
"If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need."
"Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues, but the parent of all the others."
"The higher we are placed, the more humbly we should walk."
"The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living."
"It is not by muscle, speed, or physical dexterity that great things are achieved, but by reflection, force of character, and judgment."
"While there's life, there's hope."
"Friendship improves happiness and abates misery, by the doubling of our joy and the dividing of our grief."
"The welfare of the people is the highest law."
"The wise are instructed by reason, average minds by experience, the stupid by necessity, and the brute by instinct."
"It is foolish to tear one’s hair in grief, as though sorrow would be made less by baldness."
"Nature herself has imprinted on the minds of all the idea of God."
"The foundation of justice is good faith."
"To be ignorant of what occurred before you were born is to remain always a child."
"No sane man will dance."
"If you accomplish something good with hard work, the labor passes quickly, but the good endures."
"We ought to endure all the difficulties that arise from training if we want to attain virtue."
"What greater thing is there for two human souls than to feel that they are joined for life?"
"If you want to study philosophy, prepare yourself from the beginning to be ridiculed, mocked, and hated."
"The man who has practiced philosophy as a cure for his own soul knows that his own shortcomings are a greater cause of distress than anything the outside world can inflict."
"Do not try to seem wise to others, but be wise in your own eyes."
"A person’s worth should be measured by their character, not their possessions."
"What one can expect from studying philosophy is not to be able to boast of it, but to be improved by it."
"Virtue is nothing else than right reason."
"The best way to avenge yourself is not to become like the wrongdoer."
"One should not seek to avoid all pain, but rather to endure the pain that one ought to endure."
"True education consists in training oneself in good habits."
"Women have received from the gods the same ability to reason that men have."
"We must train ourselves to love all human beings, for we are made for fellowship."
"The person who masters their own soul will find that there is no enemy they cannot conquer."
“Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity.”
“Sometimes even to live is an act of courage.”
“We suffer more often in imagination than in reality”
"There is no easy way from the earth to the stars”
“All cruelty springs from weakness.”
“Religion is regarded by the common people as true, by the wise as false, and by rulers as useful.”
“Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body.”
“If a man knows not to which port he sails, no wind is favorable.”
“As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters.”
“You act like mortals in all that you fear, and like immortals in all that you desire”
“Hang on to your youthful enthusiasms -- you’ll be able to use them better when you’re older.”
“It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves more, that is poor. ”
“It is the power of the mind to be unconquerable.”
“If you really want to escape the things that harass you, what you’re needing is not to be in a different place but to be a different person.”
“Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life.”
“What need is there to weep over parts of life? The whole of it calls for tears.”
“He who is brave is free”
“No man was ever wise by chance”
"Man conquers the world by conquering himself."
"Well-being is attained little by little, and nevertheless is no little thing itself."
"We have two ears and one mouth, so we should listen more than we say."
"Happiness is a good flow of life."
"Better to trip with the feet than with the tongue."
"No evil is honorable; but death is honorable; therefore death is not evil."
"A bad feeling is a commotion of the mind repugnant to reason, and against nature."
"Steel your sensibilities, so that life shall hurt you as little as possible."
"All the good are friends of one another."
"The goal of life is living in agreement with nature."
"The reason why we have two ears and only one mouth is that we may listen the more and talk the less."
"Fate is the endless chain of causation, whereby things are; the reason or formula by which the world goes on."
"The best sign of a noble mind is to be cheerful under adverse circumstances."
"No loss should be more regretted than the loss of time."
"The avaricious man is like the barren sandy ground of the desert, which sucks in all the rain and dew with greediness, but yields no fruitful herbs or plants for the benefit of others."