"I am looking for an honest man."
"I threw away my cup when I saw a child drinking with his hands."
"It is not that I am mad, it is only that my head is different from yours."
"In a rich man’s house, there is no place to spit except in his face."
"He has the most who is content with the least."
"Why not whip the teacher when the pupil misbehaves?"
"I know nothing, except the fact of my ignorance."
"Wise men speak because they have something to say; fools speak because they have to say something."
"I piss on those who call life good."
"The only way to true freedom is to despise wealth and power."
"The mob is the mother of tyrants."
"Of what use is a philosopher who doesn’t hurt anybody’s feelings?"
"The art of being a slave is to rule one’s master."
"It is the privilege of the gods to want nothing, and of godlike men to want little."
"I am not an Athenian or a Corinthian, but a citizen of the world."
"If I were not Diogenes, I would be wishing to be Diogenes."
"Dogs and philosophers do the greatest good and get the fewest rewards."
"Other dogs bite only their enemies, whereas I bite my friends to save them."
"Modesty is the color of virtue."
"Bury me on my face, for I have lived my life on the wrong side."
"Blushing is the color of virtue."
"If your cloak were of purple, you would still be Diogenes."
"To become self-sufficient is the greatest wealth."
"The foundation of every state is the education of its youth."
"Those who have virtue always in their mouth, and neglect it in practice, are like a harp which sounds sweetly but is useless."
"The sun too shines into cesspools, but is not polluted."
"When I look at those who build houses, I wonder why they take so much trouble to lock themselves in."
"Why do you laugh? Change just one letter, and ‘laughter’ becomes ‘slaughter’."
"Men are complicated beasts. One half is a scoundrel, and the other half is a fool."
"I will not rest until the gods become ashamed of their wealth."
"As a matter of self-respect, I choose to live in poverty."
"The most beautiful sight is the sight of a man seeking the truth."
"It takes a wise man to discover a wise man."
"People who talk well but do nothing are like musical instruments; the sound is all they have to offer."
"Nothing can be known, not even that nothing can be known."
"What use is a philosopher who doesn’t disturb anyone?"
"The easiest way to gain control over a free society is to control the flow of information."
"A man’s life is wasted when he pursues what is unnecessary."
"Those who have the most luxury are in need of the most help."
"You will be more respected if you learn to live without respect."
"There is only one way to be happy: live without wanting anything."
"Poverty is freedom if it frees you from desire."
"Of all the animals, man is the only one who is never satisfied."
"Throw a bone to a dog, and it is content; give a man a kingdom, and he still wants more."
"Freedom is the greatest thing that can be gained, and the only thing that can’t be taken away unless given."
"The purpose of life is to live simply and freely."
"One original thought is worth a thousand mindless traditions."
"It is better to be a beggar without fear than a king with it."
"The greatest virtue is to have no need of it."
"Behold! I have seen men grow old in misery, because they wanted to live as though they would never die."