"We suffer not from events in our lives, but from our judgments about them."
"No man is free who is not master of himself."
"It’s not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters."
"Freedom is the only worthy goal in life; it is won by disregarding things that lie beyond our control."
"First say to yourself what you would be; then do what you have to do."
"He who laughs at himself never runs out of things to laugh at."
"Make the best use of what is in your power, and take the rest as it happens."
"You become what you give your attention to."
"Don’t explain your philosophy. Embody it."
"If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid."
"Wealth consists not in having great possessions, but in having few wants."
"It is impossible for a man to learn what he thinks he already knows."
"Man is troubled not by events, but by the meaning he gives them."
"Circumstances don’t make the man, they only reveal him to himself."
"Only the educated are free."
"Seek not the good in external things; seek it in yourselves."
"If you wish to be free, desire nothing that depends on others."
"Attach yourself to what is spiritually superior, regardless of what other people think or do."
"The key is to keep company only with those who uplift you, whose presence calls forth your best."
"There is only one way to happiness, and that is to cease worrying about things which are beyond our power."
"No man is free who is not a master of himself."
"The greater the difficulty, the more glory in surmounting it."
"Suffering arises from trying to control what is uncontrollable, or from neglecting what is within our power."
"When someone is properly grounded in life, they shouldn’t have to look outside themselves for approval."
"Keep your attention focused entirely on what is truly your own concern."
"Nothing great is created suddenly, any more than a bunch of grapes or a fig."
"If you would be good, first believe that you are bad."
"To accuse others for one’s own misfortunes is a sign of want of education."
"Know you not that a good man does nothing for appearance sake, but for the sake of having done right?"
"How long are you going to wait before you demand the best for yourself?"
"Don’t hope that events will turn out the way you want, welcome events in whichever way they happen."
"Don’t seek for everything to happen as you wish it would, but rather wish that everything happens as it actually will."
"Men are disturbed not by things, but by the views they take of them."
"Wealth consists not in having great possessions, but in having few wants."
"Events do not disturb people; rather, they disturb themselves by holding beliefs about them."
"The essence of philosophy is that a man should so live that his happiness shall depend as little as possible on external things."
"Control thy passions lest they take vengeance on thee."
"No one is truly free who is a slave to his body."
"What’s the use of being smart if you’re not happy?"
"Is freedom anything else than the right to live as we wish? Nothing else."
"A ship should not ride on a single anchor, nor life on a single hope."
"The Stoic’s motto: Endure and renounce."
"People are not disturbed by things, but by the views they take of them."
"It is better to die of hunger, having lived without grief and fear, than to live with a troubled spirit."
"You are a little soul carrying around a corpse."
"Don’t let your desires be in opposition to what is in your control."
"Remember, it is not enough to be hit or insulted to be harmed; you must believe that you are being harmed."
"Practice yourself, for heaven’s sake, in little things, and then proceed to greater."
"Let silence be your goal for the most part."
"To be or not to be is not the question. The real question is: Are you prepared to face whatever happens with tranquility?"