"You have power over your mind—not outside events. Realize this, and you will find strength."
"The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts."
"Waste no more time arguing about what a good man should be. Be one."
"Our life is what our thoughts make it."
"If it is not right, do not do it; if it is not true, do not say it."
"The best revenge is to be unlike your enemy."
"Choose not to be harmed—and you won’t feel harmed. Don’t feel harmed—and you haven’t been."
"When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive—to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love."
"The soul becomes dyed with the color of its thoughts."
"Look well into thyself; there is a source of strength which will always spring up if thou wilt always look."
"It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live."
"Do every act of your life as if it were your last."
"He who lives in harmony with himself lives in harmony with the universe."
"Everything we hear is an opinion, not a fact. Everything we see is a perspective, not the truth."
"You are a little soul carrying around a corpse."
"What we do now echoes in eternity."
"The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way."
"How ridiculous and how strange to be surprised at anything which happens in life."
"The universe is change; our life is what our thoughts make it."
"Accept the things to which fate binds you, and love the people with whom fate brings you together, but do so with all your heart."
"Reject your sense of injury, and the injury itself disappears."
"To love only what happens, what was destined. No greater harmony."
"Dwell on the beauty of life. Watch the stars, and see yourself running with them."
"If someone is able to show me that what I think or do is not right, I will happily change, for I seek the truth, by which no one was ever truly harmed."
"Look back over the past, with its changing empires that rose and fell, and you can foresee the future too."
"The best way to avenge yourself is to not be like the one who wronged you."
"It is in your power to withdraw yourself whenever you desire. Perfect tranquility within consists in the good ordering of the mind."
"Remember: you are here for but a short while, and to fulfill your purpose."
"Look within. Within is the fountain of good, and it will ever bubble up if thou wilt ever dig."
"Everything is interwoven in a sacred bond; there is hardly anything unrelated to anything else."
"Be tolerant with others and strict with yourself."
"No one loses any other life than the one he is living, nor does he live any other life than the one he is losing."
"Receive without pride, let go without attachment."
"You will meet the same fate as everything else; the same thing happens to all."
"It is the person who continues in his self-deception and ignorance who is harmed."
"If it is endurable, then endure it. Stop complaining."
"Remember that very little is needed to make a happy life."
"Be like the rock that the waves keep crashing over. It stands unmoved and the raging of the sea falls still around it."
"The best revenge is not to be like your enemy."
"Time is like a river made up of events which happen, and its current is strong; no sooner does anything appear than it is swept by and another takes its place."
"Think of yourself as dead. You have lived your life. Now, take what’s left and live it properly."
"It never ceases to amaze me: we all love ourselves more than other people, but care more about their opinion than our own."
"Think of the life you have lived until now as over and, as a dead man, see what’s left as a bonus and live it according to nature."
"If someone despises me, that is his concern. My only concern is not doing or saying anything deserving of contempt."
"To live happily is an inward power of the soul."
"Don’t go on discussing what a good person should be. Just be one."
"The happiness of those who want to be popular depends on others; the happiness of those who seek pleasure fluctuates with moods outside their control; but the happiness of the wise grows out of their own free acts."
"Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present."
"Remember that the loss of life is no great loss, for the soul must return to where it came."
"Let no action be done at random, nor without purpose."