"The greater the difficulty, the greater the glory in surmounting it."
"Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues but the parent of all others."
"If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need."
"The welfare of the people is the ultimate law."
"A room without books is like a body without a soul."
"Silence is one of the great arts of conversation."
"Freedom is a possession of inestimable value."
"The life given us by nature is short, but the memory of a well-spent life is eternal."
"It is a great thing to know our vices."
"Any man can make mistakes, but only an idiot persists in his error."
"To be ignorant of what occurred before you were born is to remain always a child."
"The authority of those who teach is often an obstacle to those who want to learn."
"We are in bondage to the law in order that we may be free."
"The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil."
"The foundation of justice is good faith."
"While there’s life, there’s hope."
"He who has a great deal of knowledge and a poor character is like a diseased tree with beautiful leaves."
"Nature has given us the seeds of knowledge, not knowledge itself."
"Friendship improves happiness and abates misery by doubling our joy and dividing our grief."
"True nobility is exempt from fear."
"The greater the state, the greater the call for justice."
"It is not by muscle, speed, or physical dexterity that great things are achieved, but by reflection, force of character, and judgment."
"A nation can survive its fools, and even the ambitious. But it cannot survive treason from within."
"Rashness belongs to youth; prudence to old age."
"The purpose of education is to free the student from the tyranny of the present."
"I criticize by creation, not by finding fault."
"Dum spiro, spero — While I breathe, I hope."
"Cultivation to the mind is as necessary as food to the body."
"To be content with what we possess is the greatest and most secure of riches."
"No sane man will dance."
"If we are not ashamed to think it, we should not be ashamed to say it."
"The wise are instructed by reason; ordinary minds by experience; the stupid, by necessity; and brutes by instinct."
"To whom does ‘public opinion’ belong if not to the people?"
"Nothing is so unbelievable that oratory cannot make it acceptable."
"In times of war, the laws fall silent."
"What is permissible is not always honorable."
"The good of the people is the greatest law."
"The face is a picture of the mind as the eyes are its interpreter."
"It is not enough to acquire wisdom; it is necessary to employ it."
"Justice consists in doing no injury to men; decency in giving them no offense."
"Let reason govern desire."
"The greatest pleasures are only narrowly separated from disgust."
"The man who commands efficiently must have obeyed others in the past."
"Times are bad. Children no longer obey their parents, and everyone is writing a book."
"The function of friendship is to make an honorable person rejoice, and to have confidence in another."
"The greatest incitement to crime is the hope of escaping punishment."
"It is a mark of great competence to see what is possible and what is necessary."
"The only excuse for war is that we may live in peace unmolested."
"If we are to understand the present, we must know the past."
"To live long is to outlive many."