"We suffer more often in imagination than in reality."
"Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity."
"Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life."
"He who is brave is free."
"True happiness is to enjoy the present, without anxious dependence on the future."
"It is not that we have a short time to live, but that we waste a lot of it."
"Sometimes even to live is an act of courage."
"He suffers more than necessary, who suffers before it is necessary."
"As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters."
"Difficulties strengthen the mind, as labor does the body."
"It is not the man who has too little, but the man who craves more, who is poor."
"Wealth is the slave of a wise man. The master of a fool."
"Fate leads the willing and drags along the reluctant."
"No man is more unhappy than he who never faces adversity."
"He who has a why to live can bear almost any how."
"No man was ever wise by chance."
"Wealth is the ability to fully experience life without craving more."
"He who fears death will never do anything worth of a man who is alive."
"Expecting is the greatest impediment to living."
"He who is everywhere is nowhere."
"If you really want to escape the things that harass you, what you’re needing is not to be in a different place but to be a different person."
"Nothing is more honorable than a grateful heart."
"The greatest remedy for anger is delay."
"It is the power of the mind to be unconquerable."
"The mind that is anxious about the future is miserable."
"The whole future lies in uncertainty: live immediately."
"A gem cannot be polished without friction, nor a man perfected without trials."
"Life, if well lived, is long enough."
"He who is brave is not the one who feels no fear but the one who masters his fear."
"Let us train our minds to desire what the situation demands."
"Associate with those who will make a better person of you."
"It is the mark of a great mind to rise above insults."
"If you wish to be loved, love."
"Anger: an acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured."
"To bear trials with a calm mind robs misfortune of its strength and burden."
"One of the most beautiful qualities of true friendship is to understand and to be understood."
"If a man knows not to which port he sails, no wind is favorable."
"It is more fitting for a man to laugh at life than to lament over it."
"The greatest wealth is a poverty of desires."
"We often become courageous out of necessity rather than out of desire."
"To be everywhere is to be nowhere."
"Every new beginning comes from some other beginning’s end."
"Nothing is so bitter that a calm mind cannot find comfort in it."
"No one is able to shed burdens as well as the one who knows they are temporary."
"He who has learned how to die has unlearned how to be a slave."
"One should count each day a separate life."
"We should every night call ourselves to account: what infirmity have I mastered today? What passions opposed? What temptation resisted? What virtue acquired?"
"Hurry up and live."
"The greatest obstacle to living is expectancy, which hangs upon tomorrow and loses today."
"To live is to be ready for death at any moment."