"Happiness is a good flow of life."
"Well-being is attained by little and little, and nevertheless it is no little thing itself."
"No evil is honorable: but death is honorable; therefore, death is not evil."
"Man conquers the world by conquering himself."
"Better to trip with the feet than with the tongue."
"Fate is the endless chain of causation, whereby things are; the reason or formula by which the world goes on."
"The goal of life is living in agreement with nature."
"All things are parts of one single system, which is called nature."
"We have two ears and one mouth, so we should listen more than we say."
"The wise man is self-sufficient, but he chooses to share his experiences and virtues."
"Steel your sensibilities, so that life shall hurt you as little as possible."
"The reason why we have two ears and only one mouth is that we may listen the more and talk the less."
"If you lay violent hands on me, you’ll have my body, but my mind will remain with Stilpo."
"Happiness is a state of mind, not the result of external circumstances."
"Nothing is more becoming of a wise man than silence."
"A friend is our second self."
"All things are created by nature according to her governing reason."
"We should not be carried away by the appearance of things, but examine them soberly and honestly."
"No loss should be more regrettable to us than the loss of time."
"The wise man does not take part in public disturbances and rarely enters into conflicts."
"A bad feeling is a commotion of the mind repugnant to reason and against nature."
"Well-being is achieved by a life of harmony and consistency."
"The goal of life is to live in agreement with nature."
"Circumstances do not rise to meet our expectations; they fall to the level of our preparation."
"A good character is the only guarantee of everlasting, carefree happiness."
"To live virtuously is to live in accordance with reason."
"All things are produced and sustained by one great cause: nature."
"He who conquers himself is mightier than he who conquers a city."
"Passions arise from false judgments."
"The end may be defined as life in accordance with nature."
"Man should act in accordance with his nature and the nature of the universe."
"Nothing is evil that is according to nature."
"The greatest sign of weakness is to fear the things that are inevitable."
"Only the educated are free."
"No man is free who is not master of himself."
"True happiness is found in the simplicity of life."
"A tranquil mind is the greatest asset for living."
"The art of living is more like wrestling than dancing."
"No evil can happen to a good man."
"By silence, I hear other men’s imperfections and conceal my own."
"Virtue alone is sufficient for happiness."
"Freedom is the only worthy goal in life. It is won by disregarding things that lie beyond our control."
"Nothing truly belongs to you but your own will."
"If you want to be whole, let yourself be partial. If you want to be full, let yourself be empty."
"The soul is dyed by the color of its thoughts."
"A rational being can act for the sake of the whole."
"To live without desire is to live like a god."
"The goal of life is to achieve tranquility and freedom from suffering."
"The chief good is harmony with the universe."
"We should strive to have a character that is a model for others."